i12974 - two new docs:... (#737)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/che-7/hands-on-guidance/proc_creating-a-workspace-by-importing-source-code-of-your-project.adoc

[id="creating-a-workspace-by-importing-source-code-of-your-project_{context}"]
= Creating a workspace by importing the source code of your project

> This section is about how to create a new workspace to edit an existing codebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to create a new workspace to edit an existing codebase, either before or after creating a workspace.
```

> There are 2 ways to do that *before* starting a workspace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new workspace to edit  an existing codebase, use one of the following two methods *before* you start the workspace:
```

> * xref:#configure-devfile[Select a stack from the User Dashboard, then change the devfile to include your project]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select a  stack from the *Dashboard* and then change the devfile to include the project. For details, see xref:#configure-devfile[].
```

Reviewer 2: @supriya-bharadwaj, `<xref:#configure-devfile>` is invalid syntax.

> * xref:#configuring-a-che-workspace-using-a-devfile_end-user-tasks[Add a devfile to a git repository and start the workspace using chectl or a factory]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add a devfile to a Git repository and start the workspace using `chectl` or a factory. For details, see xref:#configuring-a-che-workspace-using-a-devfile_end-user-tasks[].
```

Reviewer 2: @supriya-bharadwaj, the correct syntax is `xref:address[]`.

> There are also 3 ways to do that *after* starting a workspace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new workspace to edit an existing codebase, use one of the following three methods *after* you have started the workspace:
```

Author: verbose, but OK.

* xref:#importing-from-the-user-dashboard-into-an-existing-workspace[Import from the User Dashboard into an existing workspace]
* xref:#importing-to-a-running-workspace-with-git-clone-command[Import to a running workspace with git clone command]
* xref:#importing-to-a-running-workspace-with-git-clone-in-a-terminal[Import to a running workspace with git clone in a terminal]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Import a workspace from the *Dashboard* into an existing workspace. For details, see xref:#importing-from-the-user-dashboard-into-an-existing-workspace.
* Import to a running workspace using the `git clone` command. For details, see xref:#importing-to-a-running-workspace-with-git-clone-in-a-terminal.
* Import to a running workspace using the `git clone` command in a terminal. For details, see xref:#importing-to-a-running-workspace-with-git-clone-in-a-terminal.
```

Author: ugh, ok.

[discrete]
== Prerequisites

* You need an OKD, OCP, or OSD cluster, if using Che on Openshift. See below for use of link:https://www.okd.io/minishift/[Minishift].
* Or, you need a Kubernetes cluster such as link:https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube#installation[Minikube] to use Che on Kubernetes.
* You need to have created a workspace (with plugins related to your development environment).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For Che on OpenShift, an OKD, OCP, or OSD cluster. To use Minishift, see https://www.okd.io/minishift/.
* For Che on Kubernetes, a Kubernetes cluster like link:https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube#installation[Minikube].
* A workspace with plug-ins related to your deployment environment.
```

[discrete]

> == Importing from the User Dashboard into an existing workspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Importing from the Dashboard into an existing workspace
```

(*User* is not needed)

There are at least two ways to import a project via the User Dashboard.

From the User Dashboard, select Workspaces, then select your workspace by clicking on its name, or use the gear icon. The former will link you to the workspace's *Overview* tab, while the latter will link to the *Devfile* tab where you can enter your own YAML configuration.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import a project using the *Dashboard* in one of the following two ways:

* On the *Dashboard*, click *Workspaces*. Then, click the required workspace. The *Overview* tab displays showing the overview of the workspace.
* On the *Dashboard*, click *Workspaces*. Then, click the gear icon next to the required workspace. The *devfile* tab displays allowing you to enter the YAML configuration.
```

Author: *Devfile* not *devfile*

In either case, click the *Projects* tab next.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *Projects* tab.  
```

(next is not required.)

// TODO https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/13665 remove ref to blank and zip

> From the *Projects* tab of your workspace's configuration page in the User Dashboard, click the Add Project button. You can then import a sample project, create a blank project, import from a git project, or import from a zip file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Add Project*. You can then import a sample project, create a blank project, import from a Git project, or import from a zip file.
```

("From the *Projects* tab of your workspace's configuration page in the User Dashboard": This is not needed because the user has already clicked these tabs)

image::workspaces/workspace-config-projects.png[Add projects to workspace]

[NOTE]
====
You can add a project to a non-running workspace, but you must start the workspace to delete it.
====

// TODO https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/13665 remove section

> === Create a new repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Creating a new repository
```

> To add a link:https://github.com/che-samples/blank[blank project], give it a name and a description:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a blank project, take the following steps:

. Type a name and a description in the *Name* and *Description* fields.

```

image::workspaces/add-blank-project.png[Add blank project]

> Next, open your workspace by clicking the green *Open* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Open* to open your workspace.
```

image::workspaces/open-blank-project.png[Your empty project]

> === Edit an existing repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Editing an existing repository
```

> To edit an existing repository, choose the git project or zip file, and Che will load it into your workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit an existing repository:

. Select the required Git project or ZIP file. The project is then loaded into your workspace.
```

image::workspaces/add-git-project.png[Add existing git project]

> Next, open your workspace by clicking the green *Open* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the green btn:[Open] button to open the workspace.
```

Reviewer 2: @supriya-bharadwaj, it's good to say what the user is supposed to click.

Reviewer: @rkratky , will it be good to also say that the button is "green"?

// TODO https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/13665 fix screenshot
image::workspaces/open-git-project.png[Your git project]

> === Edit commands after importing a project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Editing the commands after importing a project
```

Author: I wish this guide was less gerund-based and more action-word based (Edit vs. Editing) but yeah gotta be consistent.

> Once you have a project, you can add commands to it. This allows you to more easily run, debug, or launch your application in a browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have a project in your workspace, you can add commands to it. Adding commands to your projects allows you to run, debug, or launch your application in a browser.
```

> You can do this via the workpace's *Devfile* tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add commands to the project:

. Click the *devfile* tab of your workspace.
```

Author: *Devfile* not *devfile*.

Reviewer 2: @supriya-bharadwaj, docs must reflect the UI (even if it happened to be incorrect, which it isn't in this case).

Reviewer 2: @supriya-bharadwaj, also, we need to say where things are: in the actual workspaces, or in the dashboard?

Reviewer: Edited "Devfile" to "devfile".

image::workspaces/workspace-config-yaml.png[Add commands to workspace]

> Then inside the workspace, use run a command from the menu *Terminal* > *Run Task...*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the menu, click *Terminal* > *Run Task* and then click *Run a command*.
```

Author: Style guide: do we omit the bullet when the section only has one item? 

Maybe "From the menu, select *Terminal* ..." instead of just "Click the..." ?

Reviewer 2: +1

@supriya-bharadwaj,

* No reason to number steps when there's just one.
* Nick is right, we can't just say 'click' without telling the user where it is.

Reviewer: Got it. Thanks :)

image::workspaces/run-command.png[Run task]

> You can configure the commands from the menu *Terminal* > *Configure Tasks...*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To configure the commands, from the main menu, click the *Terminal* > *Configure Tasks* menu options.
```

Author: the single menu item actually has "...". I was not referring to multiple items.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/227597/60738891-d5c03900-9f2d-11e9-9927-74330aa2a7f5.png)

Reviewer 2: @supriya-bharadwaj, again, we need to specify that it's the main menu. There are way too many things to click on in Che :)

Reviewer: @nickboldt , the IBM style guide says that we should not include, in docs, ellipses that are part of the UI items (unless omitting them creates confusion, which I think it does not in this case). I know that you mentioned it because it was there on the UI. :)

@rkratky, would you agree with me on that? Also, yes, I get your point about specifying that the action is happening on the main menu. I am re-wording my suggestion to reflect that.

image::workspaces/configure-command.png[Configure tasks]

> == Importing to a running workspace with `git clone` command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Importing to a running workspace using the `git clone` command

> In addition to the approach above, where you can add projects via your workspace's *Projects* or *Devfile* tab, you can simply start a workspace, and use `git clone` from the command palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start a workspace, then use the `git clone` command from the command palette to import a project to a running workspace.
```

Author: If you remove the first half of the sentence, then maybe we should start with "Start a workspace, then use the `git clone` command..." rather than "You can..."

Reviewer 2: +1 Don't use "you can".

Reviewer: Agree. Edited.

Author: The phrase "You can" appears 400 times in 122 of the files in the Che docs, but sure. I can make at least the NEW docs more compliant with the rules. :)

image::workspaces/welcome.png[Welcome screen]

> Open the command palette with `F1` or `CTRL-SHIFT-P`, or from the link in the Welcome screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the command palette, using the `F1` key, the `CTRL-SHIFT-P` keys,  or using the link on the welcome screen.
```

Author: I though the style guide recommends no numbered bullets when there's only one item in the list?

Reviewer 2: +1

Reviewer: Agree (read: engraved in my brain).

Author: I'm going to leave my original edit as it's less verbose.

image::workspaces/git-clone-command.png[Invoke git clone command]

Enter the path to the project you want to clone.

image::workspaces/git-clone-command-2.png[Configure git clone command]

> == Importing to a running workspace with `git clone` in a terminal

Author: see comment below. this is not really what we want here.

Reviewer 2: @supriya-bharadwaj, Nick is right. There are multiple ways to enter/run commands. So, we need o say that it's in the terminal.

Reviewer: Reverted.

> In addition to the approach above, where you can add projects via your workspace's *Projects* or *Devfile* tab, you can simply start a workspace, open a *Terminal*, and use `git clone` to pull code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, to add projects to a workspace, open a *Terminal*, and use the `git clone` command to pull code.
```

Author: Hmmm... I was trying to differentiate more clearly the notion of the git clone command (from the UI) and just typing `git clone` in the terminal.

If you call the thing typed "the `git clone` command" it sounds like the UI approach, not the console approach.

Also with your suggested change, the section title should also be updated to match.

Reviewer 2: @supriya-bharadwaj, don't use "you can". Just say "Alternatively, to add projects to a workspace, open the Terminal..."

@nickboldt, Supriya is right in qualifying `git clone`. To distinguish between a GUI item and a terminal command, we use styling (GUI items in bold, typed commands in monospace) and proper qualification ("Select the **Git: Clone...** command", "Run the `git clone` command").

Reviewer: Edited to get rid of "you can".

Author: OK I've switched the command to be **Git: Clone...** and the commandline remains `git clone`.

image::workspaces/git-clone-terminal.png[Run git clone in a terminal]

Note that while this approach will store code in the workspace, it will NOT update the workspace's configuration, so you will NOT see projects imported this way in the *Projects* or *Devfile* tab.

Similarly, if you delete a project, that you previously added via the User Dashboard, from the workspace with `rm -fr myproject`, it may still appear in the *Projects* or *Devfile* tab.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Importing or deleting workspace projects in the terminal does not update workspace configuration, and the change is not reflected in the *Project* and *Devfile* tabs in the dashboard.
```

Author: You prefer this as a single paragraph?

Also you used *devfile* instead of *Devfile*. :)

Reviewer 2: @supriya-bharadwaj,

* admonition syntax is `NOTE: ...`
* para too long
* "git clone command" must be styled
* Nick is right about capitalization -- docs must reflect theu UI.
* This prose is overly wordy and complex. Use:

`NOTE: Importing or deleting workspace projects in the terminal does not update workspace configuration,
and the change is not reflected in the *Project* and *Devfile* tabs in the dashboard.`

Reviewer: Edited to use what you suggested, @rkratky .

Author: fixed in next commit (I added Robert's rewrite and my following paragraph (which is linked with "Similarly...") to a larger admonition block.

[id="creating-a-workspace-by-importing-source-code-of-your-project_{context}"]
= Creating a workspace by importing source code of your project

This section is about how to create a new workspace to edit an existing codebase. There are 3 ways to do that:

* xref:creating-a-workspace-from-code-sample_{context}#change-the-workspace-configuration[Select a stack from the User Dashboard but change the project]
* Add a devfile to a git repository and starting the workspace using chectl or a factory
* Import a project in a running workspace from the editor

[discrete]
== Prerequisites

* You need an OKD, OCP, or OSD cluster, if using Che on Openshift. See below for use of link:https://www.okd.io/minishift/[Minishift].
* Or, you need a Kubernetes cluster such as link:https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube#installation[Minikube] to use Che on Kubernetes.

[discrete]

> == Importing from the dashboard

Reviewer 3: You talk about adding a project to an already existing workspace. Not about creating a new workspace using a stack and adding an existing project (i.e. overriding the default sample that comes with the stack). That's an interesting use case as well but this section is about "Creating a workspace...".

Author: ah, so the workflow here should be:
* pick a stack from the list
* Create & Proceed Editing (which aside, is bad engrish)
* configure devfile to pull a different default project
* open workspace

Reviewer 3: well you don't need to `Proceed Editing`, you can:
- select a stack
- select `git` or `github` tab and fill the details of the repo you want to add as a project
- click `Add project`
- Create & Open Workspace

Author: ok, cool I have that one documented already in http://0.0.0.0:4000/che-7/end-user-tasks.html#edit-an-existing-repository (inside http://0.0.0.0:4000/che-7/end-user-tasks.html#importing-from-the-user-dashboard-into-an-existing-workspace ) 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/227597/60530606-1b2efd00-9cc7-11e9-93b6-045c0972ce6b.png)
